translate: basic/binary.md (#118)
OI-wiki/i18n: docs/basic/binary.md

Last translate with upstream: [58b9fe6](https://github.com/OI-wiki/OI-wiki/blob/58b9fe67d667d265261d733b70b90e6cf0eaefdd/docs/basic/binary.md)

## Bisection method

> The article will briefly introduce binary search, along with ternary search and binary answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The article will briefly introduce binary search, along with ternary search and bisectioning answer.
```

### Introduction

[Binary search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_search_algorithm#:~:text=In%20computer%20science%2C%20binary%20search,middle%20element%20of%20the%20array.), also known as half-interval search, logarithmic search, or binary chop, is a search algorithm used to find an element in an ordered array.

### Principles of Bisection method

Take the example of finding a number in an ascending array.

Each time it examines the middle element of the current interval. If the middle element is just what we are looking for, then the search process is ended; if the middle element is less than the target value, meaning the all values in the left side is smaller than the target one and the result will not be found there, thus only need to search in the right side; if the middle element is greater than the value found, similar as above, meaning the elements in the right side will only be larger than target value and there will be no target element. So it only needs to search in the left half.

### Properties

#### Time Complexity

> The best time complexity is $O(1)$<!---when the middle element matches the query-->. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best time complexity is $O(1)$, when the middle element just matches what is finding. 
```

```

??? note
    In case of $n$ being a signed number, where $n\ge 0$ is guaranteed, `n >> 1` has fewer instructions than `n / 2`.

### Minimizing the maximum value

Please note that the word *ordered* we mention here is generalized. If the left or right side of an array satisfies certain condition, and the other side does not, it can also be seen as being ordered (e.g. If satisfying the condition is regarded as $1$ and the unsatisfying the condition is regarded as $0$, at least it is ordered for this dimension in this condition). In other words, the binary search algorithm can be used to find the largest (or smallest) value that satisfies a certain condition.

> What if we ask for the minimum possible value of the maximum value satisfying a certain condition (minimizing maximum value)? The intuitive way is to enumerate the *maximum value* from small to large to be the answer, and then check whether it is legal. However, if the answer is monotonous, then you can use the binary search to find it faster. So, if you want to use the binary search algorithm to solve this "minimize maximum" problem, it needs to meet the following three conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What if we ask for the minimum possible value of the maximum value satisfying a certain condition (minimizing maximum value)? The intuitive way is to enumerate the *maximum value* from small to large to be the answer, and then check whether it is legal. However, if the answer is monotonous, then binary search could be used to find it faster. So, to solve this "minimize maximum" problem with binary search, it needs to meet the following three conditions:
```

### Binary Search in STL

One thing worth noting is that for an ordered array you can use `std::lower_bound()` to find [the first number greater than or equal to your value](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/algorithm/lower_bound/), and `std::upper_bound()` to find the [first greater than the number of your value](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/algorithm/upper_bound). Both of them are defined in the header `<algorithm>`.

> Please note that it must be an ordered array, as both of them are implemented in binary search algorithm; otherwise the answer would be unexpected. <!---修正了一点点语法问题, 以及, 感觉使用Unexpected更合适-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that it must be an ordered array, as both of them are implemented in binary search algorithm; otherwise the answer may be incorrect.
```

For detailed usage, please refer to [STL](../lang/csl/index.md) .

### Bisection answer

When solving problems, we often consider enumerating answers and then check whether the value is correct. If we replace the enumeration here with a bisection method, it becomes a "bisection answer".

Let's take a look at a sample problem [Luogu P1873 Cut Tree](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1873) (original link in Chinese). 

> <!---咱觉得可以加一个题目摘要-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

???+note "abstract of the problem"

>     You are given two integer variables $n$ ($1 \le n \le 10^6$) and $m$($1 \le m \le 2 \times 10^9$) and an array $a_1, a_2, ..., a_n (a_i \le 10^9)$. You are asked to find the minimum integer $h$ which satisfies that $$\sum a_i - h \space (\forall i \in [1, n],  a_i > h > m)$$ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You are given two integer variables $n$ ($1 \le n \le 10^6$) and $m$ ($1 \le m \le 2 \times 10^9$) and an array $a_1, a_2, \ldots , a_n$ $(a_i \le 10^9)$. Your task is to find the minimum integer $h$ satisfying $$\sum a_i - h ~(\forall i \in [1, n],  a_i > h > m)$$ 
```

> We can enumerate the answers from 1 to 1000000000 (1 billion), but this naive approach certainly would not receive full marks. Because running from 1 to 1 billion is too time-consuming. We can divide the answer from 1 to 1 billion, and check the feasibility every time (usually using the greedy method). **This is the bisection answer**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can enumerate the answers from $1$ to $10^9$ (1 billion), but this brute force approach certainly would not receive full marks since enumerating from $1$ to 10^9$ billion is too time-consuming. We can bisect the answer within the range of $[1,~10^9]$, and check the feasibility every time (usually using the greedy method). **This is the bisection answer algorithm**.
```

    Because in the end of search, it will look like this (take the legal maximum value as an example):

    ![](./images/binary-final-1.png)<!---Need translate-->

>     then it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    then it will be
```

>     ![](./images/binary-final-2.png)<!---Need translate-->

Reviewer: 可以等一下 svg 那边

Reviewer: done.

>     ![](./images/binary-final-2.png)<!---Need translate-->

Reviewer: https://github.com/OI-wiki/i18n/commit/7c5f91056f34af56846c30c0ff716855c0ac4db8
fetch 一下？

[Ternary search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ternary_search) can be used to find the maximum (minimum) value of a [convex function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convex_function).

> Draw a picture would help you understand easier (Illustration to be added)<!---Illustration更适合语境-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Draw a picture would help you understand easier (Illustration to be added)
```
